know that I was leaving him there because he was
going through. I left him alongside the road. I
pulled him into a nice parking area where he
wouldn't get run over by somebody, but as far as I
know, he may not have ever made it to Sonora. But had
several good experiences. In fact, I've had
people go out of their way as far as 30 or 40 miles to
take you further along to where you could pick up a
ride or get you closer to home. If somebody was
going through there, going to Junction, or wasn't
going to Junction, they'd be going to someplace
like Menard. It was only 30 miles away. I was
running you over there. And we'll do that. It'll be
a very nice fun day. I have not yet had anybody share
a truly bad Aggie hitchhiking experience. In
other words, a number like you, they were drinking
too much, driving too fast, but nothing worse than
that. No, I never had a real bad experience, not
having any sort of a threatening problem with
anyone. Describe, after being in the service for
those years, describe having to buckle down to
study. What was it like that first fall? Scared to
death. First place, nearly all of us, had been out
of school or had never either been to school or had
been out for a long time. But most of the ones that I
all knew, none of them had ever been to college
before. They'd been out. They knew that they were
behind in terms of their peer groups. These kids
that they'd graduated from high school with and
went on to college were already juniors or seniors
or maybe some of them already out of school. So we
were older, although I was still not all that old at
that time, but it was very serious. You studied and
we were not really greatly appreciated by the rest
of the student body because we raised the curve. We
did make much better grades. And really the first
year I was here, Of course, everybody here was
Corps. They really didn't know what to do with us.
They didn't know how to treat us. Here we were, we'd
been in the military, had been in service, and most
of us had been in combat before, and they were just
trying to get in it, and they had their own sets of
rules and protocols and the systems that they had
grown up with or had developed here. So we were sort
of an anomaly for them. for the rest of the student
body, particularly the upperclassmen. Did any of
the Corps come out there the first fall to try to
teach y'all Aggie myths and legends and all that?
They did originally. They didn't last very long.
They didn't do it. They found out that we were not
really, as a group, all that interested in raw, raw
part of going to school, of the university life,
that we were primarily interested in getting our
studies done, getting our grades done, getting,
progressing on through and getting out. Alright,
did y'all come into football games? Yeah.
Describe your first, if you remember, what it was
like to go to an Aggie football game that fall. One
thing they did do, they convinced me that A&M was
invisible, invincible in football, and I was
greatly shocked to find out how Badly, I was
misled. I think in my four years at A&M, we won a
total of eight ballgames. But every weekend,
every week, we was darn sure we were going to be here
when we were playing that week. You know, one of the
things Bernie Welch told me that helps explain
that, and he very very proud and grateful to coach
norton he said coach norton promised every single
person that had played for him if you serve on
active duty you have a scholarship And he said,
when we came back, we weren't nearly as good
athletes and we weren't ready to concentrate on
that. We had, you know, we were more serious now.
But he honored that commitment and he said, as a
result, we didn't win many games and he lost his
job. Yeah. Well, I saw Barney Wells score the first
touchdown at the University of Texas. We went to
that game every year as well. Even when they played
it in San Antonio. So that... Now, when y'all went
to the game, did you sit as a group, you veterans?
Generally did, because we all had tickets in the
same general. Did y'all stand up like all the other
students? Oh, yeah. Okay, so you did. And did the
L's. Did the L's, yeah. They taught us that. But you
would have been the only civilian freshman and
sophomore students, wouldn't you? In other
words, the only ones not in uniform. Not in
uniform. They had a few what they called day
dodgers that were in the regular corps but did not
participate in anything but the drills. As far as
you can recall, who was running the vet outfit? Who
was in charge, do you know? On
site control, I really don't remember. As I
recall, Tom Harrington had as much to do with it as
anyone, but he wasn't out there all the time. Of
course, he was in here most of the time. Did you have
anybody that you as an individual turned to for
advice out there? How did you know what courses to
take?
That's a good question. you sort of had the catalog
and decided what it was that you thought you needed
and just sort of went in and signed up for those
courses. There wasn't a whole lot of guidance in
terms of curriculum in terms of for future until
well we got we got in here on back in here on campus
then the next year and then we got more involved.
Did you have any social life in those days? I did.
Dated
A couple of girls that, of course, none of them
local. Again, having to hitchhike to San Marcos to
talk.
T.W. and my wife, who I later married, was going to
the University of Texas at the time. Now, when do
you meet her? In the end of my junior year. Oh, so
that's later. And
then you go home, Thanksgiving, Christmas.
Thanksgiving, Christmas. Do you remember giving
your family or anybody there any description of
what it was like? What were you telling them A&M
was? Well, of course, I was real proud to be going to
A&M, to go to any school, but particularly A&M, and
we were Of course, we had a ranch and a farm, and my
dad was always interested in the new developments
in agriculture and the new types of grasses that we
might grow that would do better in that darn rocky
hill country than what we already had up there. Of
course, what we really needed to do was take about
half the stock off of it for a few years, but we
didn't think we could afford to do that. But A&M was
quite respected. in our rural part of the world. I
don't know why I had not heard more about A&M before
I went in to the Marine Corps. And you never thought
about dropping out? No. So you're, all right, and
you come back then the spring semester, things go
well. Yeah. Did your grades both, the first two
semesters, were those were good? Good grades. I
made, uh, Well, we were on the three-point system
then, so I was about a 2.7 and doing well. And did you
zero in on economics in the spring? No, I didn't do
that until I got back in on campus, and then I
decided that, in fact, it was ag economics that I
went into and never regretted doing it. It was a
very broad-based course, curriculum, and gave
you a lot of insight into it. a whole bunch of things
that I don't think I would have gotten. I got very
interested in things like geology and just
fascinating. Paleontology, I wish I could be a
paleontologist. That would be great. I don't
think I could make a living doing that. All right,
so you're out there all year, and then you go home
for the summer? I went home for the summer, worked
in the summer, every summer. Doing what? Well, I
either worked the first summer, I worked on our
range and various ranges. And then on the second
one, the second summer, and the third, let's see,
the second summer, I worked for Exxon, or Umbalo at
that time. They had, at that time, all of their
pipeline operations were staffed at service
points, and I was, I spent the summer out between
Sonora and El Dorado at what they called Station A,
where they had a, you lived out there, they had a
crew, a five-person crew with enough people to be
sure there was 24-hour coverage on everything.
And good experience. They had one provision I
thought was real odd in their requirement. They'd
be happy to hire anybody going to school that they
could place, but you had to agree that you would not
come back as a full employee. That this was, you
were purely a temporary employee for the summer.
And when the summer was over, you had to go back to
school. And you had to agree to do that before
they'd hire you. All right, so you came back here
then your sophomore year. Yeah. And on the campus,
main campus? On the main campus, up on the dorm next
to the dormitory. All right, describe that
routine for an old veteran. An old veteran, again,
that's where we really got most of our interface
with the existing student body. because now we
were in with them all the time. And while there was
some getting used to of each other, it never
really, as far as I could tell, there was never any
real problem with it. I think probably, let's get
another up to the next year, when it joined the
Corps the next year, and we had our own outfit. We
had our own,
what do they call it, the wing. with their own
structure in it. There was a little friction then
between the younger members of our group, the
sophomores and freshmen that had come in to the
Corps there, and the regular seniors and juniors
in the regular Corps, because we didn't think we
needed to snap two every time we saw one of them and
that sort of thing. But that got worked out. That
got worked out pretty well. Wait, still on that
second year, your sophomore year,
was there a good retention rate of those who had
been freshmen out at Bryan Field? Not as good as I
would have thought there would have been, because
for several reasons, I think, and not just because
of grades, although we did have a few that just were
not capable of doing the work. did not make it past
that first year. But we also had those that figured
they were already too far behind. They needed to
get married and settle down. Some of them, you
know, up in their mid-20s that decided it was time
to go out and try to earn a living and support their
wife and get married and have a family. So we lost a
few that way. But I'd say the losses were not as
great as they were in the regular population of the
school. Looking back on that year, was that, given
the realities they had to deal with, was that a good
solution to the situation? Had lots of veterans,
couldn't build the housing that quickly?
I don't think, I think they did the best thing they
could do. I think that the Bryan Air Force Base,
while we bitched about it, and moving out there,
was better than most of us had come from. I'd lived
in a pup tent for a whole lot of months that were a
whole lot worse than that. And while it was not as
what I was looking forward to, it was not bad at all.
It really wasn't bad. All right. Now, then here on
the campus, your sophomore year, you lived where?
I think at dorm 17. And I had a brother. by the way, at
that time, who had come out of the, he had been on the
Signal Corps, Pat, I don't know if you remember
Pat. He was head of the Real Estate Research
Center. Oh, yes. And he and I shared a room one year,
that sophomore year. And you were still referred
to as vets. Yep. And you wore civilian clothes to
class. Right. What was, what did a typical
undergraduate male wear then? What were, what was
normal Aggie clothing? Blue jeans. or khaki pants
and a sports shirt of some type. Those of us who came
from out in rural countries generally had a denim
jacket that we wore. What kind of foot gear? Boots.
Not cowboy boots, though? Yeah. Oh, they were?
Yeah. I was going to get work boots. Well, we also
had those, the cowboy boots, too, because most of
you out there grew up with cowboy boots on the
high-top boots. Did you wear a hat at all during the
day? I would have never really been a big hat
wearer. Most people did wear hats, but I did not
wear a hat. How was the routine in the classroom
here compared to what it had been out there at Bryan
Field? Of course it was a little easier to get to
classes here because you knew where things were.
The professors here were more oriented
at what they were doing and the way they were doing
it here. So they were probably less flexibility in
dealing with the student population that they had
than we had out there. But overall,
I think it, I think we transformed pretty well into
the general student body here. We became, we were
not considered to be a big anomaly as far as the
student body was concerned. We were vets, they
still complained about, we were running the
curves on all the classes and that sort of thing,
but But not in a bitter way. Now, did a freshman whip
out to you vets? He would when
we were in the Corps. No, but when you were a
sophomore, did anybody expect y'all to go to Yale
practice that sophomore year? No, you went to
the... silver taps and things like that, but you
could go to Yale practice if you wanted to, but it
wasn't a requirement. Silver taps was not held out
at Bryan Field, or was it? No. So here. Do you
remember your impression of silver taps when you
first? Very impressed with it, and still am. I
still, that just sends cold chills down my back
every time I hear that. Do you think it was more
meaningful to you and your fellow veterans than it
would have been to the non-veterans? I think so. I
think it was. We'd heard it for real a lot of times.
It was always a very impressive thing. Okay, now I
want to really hope you have some thoughts about
Bonfire. This would have been the fall of 47.
describe Bonfire that year, as far as you
remember, your first year on campus? I'm not sure
whether it was that year or the next year that we got
it bombed. Do you remember that? I've heard about
it. But it was on the, Bonfire was on the drill
field. On the drill field. And it was nothing like
the Bonfire now in structure. But it was all logs.
All logs. And it was TPed up. Just like this. And
about how long did they work on it? Seemed to be like
maybe two or three weeks. It was not the long period
of time that they spend on it now. My grandson just
graduated. They spent a lot of time cutting and
hauling. So one of the things I haven't been able to
get much information on yet is apparently before
the war it was all just trash and clutter. And how
did it suddenly become logs? I haven't found
anybody with any know-how on that yet. I don't know
how it changed. I think it was logs the first time
that we were involved in it here. Oh, I think 46 even
it may have been logs. Do you remember whether
y'all came in for bonfire or not from out at the
base? Yeah, we did. It was logs? I think it was logs,
the best I can recall. And I know it was when I was in
here about 47 and 48, because then we were, even
though that's when I was in the Corps, and we were
guarding it, and we were guarding the bonfire. You
know, they're hard enough to set a fire with all
that diesel fuel on them, but we guarded it, and we
had it bombed one year. Yeah, describe that. I
wasn't out there at the time, but... Two kids from
UT flew over in a small airplane and dropped some,
what do you call it, Molotov cocktail things, a
gallon jug of gasoline with a wick in it. And they
were so enthralled in dropping that on the stack of
logs that we had up there that they grounded right
out on the other side of the airport out there. But
it caused great excitement. Oh, everybody
couldn't believe, you know, that they were trying
to burn our bonfire. Did you guys, did any Aggie
students get to them after they grounded? I don't
think so. I don't think we even knew that they had
grounded until way after that. I think they...
Were they able to take it off and then... Well, I
think what they were doing, they weren't paying
attention. They were looking back to see if they
really set it afire and just almost flew it into the
ground. And it didn't kill either one of them, no.
Of course, I know it didn't hurt anyone, but it was a
good story in a way. All right. Here on the campus
now, as a non-core member sophomore, what was your
routine for a typical class day? Generally up and
have breakfast early. I always try to schedule
early classes. And then I had to study during the
day, too. Where did you study? Studying primarily
in my room. Again,
in the sophomore year we were over there and nearly
all the veterans in that area over there and
everybody sort of followed the same procedure.
You studied when you got a chance to during the day.
Then we probably had a little more nightlife then
than we had out there because it was a little easier
to get together and go out to someplace and have a
cold beverage. Was there much going on at
Northgate in those nights then? Not nearly like it
is now. Northgate was sort of, in fact, Northgate
was pretty trashy at that time. Was the movie
theater even there? Yeah, the movie theater was
there. And
the photo outfit was there. Then you go to Gine
Hall. Yeah, at Gine Hall. At that time, the name of
the building where they had the board's quarters,
And
you ate in Sabeasa.
What was your impression of Aggie food? Good. Now I
thought our food at A&M was Did you veterans pick up
Aggie slang for food and all that? Yeah, we finally
did, yeah. You finally had to if you were eating a
mess all morning. And I'm assuming that y'all
didn't have any pranks in your dorm. Not much, not
much. Not like they had over, of course, the jocks,
the cavalry groups over there, they always had
something going on. But in our dorms, it was pretty
quiet. They didn't have just a whole lot of... No,
it was an all-civilian dorm. Yeah. By that time,
who were the, as far as you were aware, who were the
key campus administrators? Who was running
things? Jim Gilchrist was the chancellor.
President and then chancellor. Of course, the
class of 46, I mean, the class of 50 was such a big
class. Let's say the biggest one we'd ever had for
some ten years after that was still the biggest
class they'd had here. But I can't really remember
what the rules were that had come down that a number
of the Corps leadership had objected to, and they
had a march on Mr. Gilchrist's house. Did you, by
chance, were you present to observe? I was not.
Didn't even know what was going on until it was over
with. But I then, of course, heard that they had it.
As I understand it, it was, and he was telling them,
no more hazing after Thanksgiving, period.
That's it. That's probably what it was. And then
they marched on his house and turned in their
resignations, and he accepted their
resignation. Shocked them. Yes, and as I
understand it, he also told them that if we have any
more hazing, then he would not sign for anybody a
recommendation that they be commissioned. I
think that was what was really the thing that
brought them to it. Did you as an undergraduate see
much of President Gilchrist? Not really. I got to
know him quite well after I got back here, but I did
not really see him. I saw Dr. Harrington more than I
did Mr. Gilchrist. What was your impression of Dr.
Harrington in those days? I thought he was a very
impressive fellow, well-spoken, made a very good
impression, handled himself very well. As far as
his philosophy and politics and that sort of
thing, I wasn't a very good judge, but I was quite
impressed with him. Now you, and you, had you
gotten into your major for sure by this time?
Sophomore year. Sophomore year? Yeah. And it
ended up being ag economics. Who did you turn to,
who were the key people for you on the faculty in
economics? Tyrus Tim, who became head of the
department during that period. Did you have any
courses with him? Yes, I did. Describe him as a
teacher for us. He was a good teacher. He brought in
a lot of external
information that you did not normally get in a
classroom because he'd come out with an extension
background, as you probably know, had a good feel
for the people that we were trying to deal with and
help. Now, the head of the department at that time
was Mr. L.P. Gabbard, a very fine gentleman. I knew
him better as a graduate student, but he was also a
very impressive fellow. Were there student
nicknames for either of them, like there were for
many other faculty? No. Not for either of them that
I can recall. Who did you turn to for advice about
your major? Primarily John McNeely. Do you
remember John McNeely? Describe him. John was a
good old South Dakota boy who swore if he ever went
back to South Dakota, he wanted to have somebody
put him in an institution somewhere. But he was a
livestock marketing man. I worked with him for
years. He was my major professor. And very, very
considerate, a very effective teacher, I
thought, and one that was well liked by the
students that he taught. And I think well
respected within the department and within his
field. He had done a lot of research work, and he was
my major professor in both my master's and Ph.D.
programs. Can you remember any examples of very
important advice that he gave you? Primarily,
Haskell, John worked on the principle that
progress was not necessarily made by the smartest
people in the world. It was made by the people that
worked hard and studied and kept trying to get it
done. And if you had a problem, you got that problem
resolved and moved on to the next one. I think that
was about the most useful kind of direction and
advice that I got from him, was that you're not
always going to solve the problem the first time
you run into it, but the time you work it over a few
times, you've got a much better chance of moving
forward with it. What did you think, sophomore,
junior year or so, what did you think you were going
to do professionally? I thought I might go into the
academic world on the one hand. I'd had an
opportunity to
go manage a large ranch up in Virginia, of all
places. I had a Roanoke, Virginia, a horse ranch
that was very attractive to me until I thought
about it again and again. But I decided that I would
really like to get involved more in research. And
of course, at that time, basically all economic
research was really done in the ag-eco field. The
new developments really came out of the ag-eco
work, primarily, as opposed to the pure
economics, who were primarily interested in
theoretical economics as opposed to the
problem-solving types of work. Were there any
other faculty members that were in your
undergraduate days that were key to your future as
you now realize it? McNeely was probably the most
key particular one. A
fellow named Bob Halpin, H-A-L-P-I-N, who has
been gone for several years. I'm sure he's dead,
but now he moved off here probably 20 years ago. But
he was also a very good mentor. He took time to work
with students.
If necessary, he'd do it at night. He'd invite you
out to his house to work on a particular problem
that you might have. He was also a very good
influence, I think. on me but on others that were in
the department. All right and now then as a junior
You decided to be in the Corps. Saturday I was going
to get a commission. Why? Oh, that was that
commission. Yeah, I wanted the commission. That
was the thing. Were your status in the Corps, you
were academically a junior, what was your status
in the Corps? Junior. You were junior, okay.
Junior privileges, all of that sort of thing. So
you didn't have to go through all that fish
baloney. Were you then assigned to a unit? that had
freshmen and sophomores and juniors and seniors
that had been through the, were you veterans
scattered out? No. We were all in the, the units
were all veteran. Ah. So it was a vet unit. E-Vet was
my company. And we had a vet wing.